10-14 changelog (#217)
chalk-ai/docs: changelog.mdx

---

## October 14, 2024

### SQL explorer in dashboard for datasets

> You can now run SQL queries in the dashboard to explore data in [datasets](https://docs.chalk.ai/docs/datasets).

Reviewer: maybe 'You can now run SQL queries on [dataset] outputs on the Chalk dashboard to explore your data.

To use this feature, navigate to the `Datasets` page in the menu, select a dataset,
and click on the `Output Explorer` tab.

![SQL Explorere for Datasets](/img/sql_explorer_datasets.png)

### Optionally evict nulls from your DynamoDB online store

Last week we enabled the option to decide whether to persist null values for features in Redis lightning
online stores, and this week we have enabled this feature in DynamoDB online stores. By default, null
values are persisted in the online store for features defined as `Optional`, but you can set `cache_nulls=False`
in the `feature` method to evict null values. Read more about how to use the `cache_nulls` parameter
[here](/api-docs#feature.cache_nulls).

> ### Set environment variables and more in Advanced section of Cloud Resource Configurations page in dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set environment variables and more in the Advanced section of the Cloud Resource Configurations page on the dashboard
```

Author: Gonna try to stay consistent with "in the dashboard"

> You can set cloud resource configurations for your environment by navigating to `Settings > Resources` in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set cloud resource configurations for your environment by navigating to `Settings > Resources` on the
```

dashboard. In addition to specifying resource configurations for resource groups like instance counts and CPU,

> you can now also set environment variables and other settings like Kubernetes Node Selectors. A notable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can now also set environment variables and other settings like Kubernetes Node Selectors. One notable
```

> environment variable that you can set is `AUTO_SHUTDOWN_PERIOD`, which should be set to the number of seconds

Reviewer 2: @melrchen I think we should perhaps omit discussion of this env var in the changelog -- it's kind of 80% baked & causes a fair amount of customer support questions w.r.t. "is my branch server on or not"?

Author: omitting!

> of inactivity after which the branch server is automatically shut down. The Kubernetes Node Selector allows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of inactivity after which the branch server will be automatically shut down. The Kubernetes Node Selector enables
```

> you to specify the machine family you would like to use for your deployment. For example, this would be [EC2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you to specify the machine family you would like to use for your deployment. This would map to  [EC2
```
